## The Impact of Technology Use on Student Psychological Wellbeing: A Technostress Meta-Analysis
#### Jay Jeffries 
<sub> ***University of Nebraska-Lincoln*** </sub>
### Abstract

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Technostress has been evaluated in online commerce, job satisfaction, adult populations, and integration in educational or organization contexts. The use of technology has also been shown to predict anxiety and depression in its consumers. However, a student-centered meta-analysis that analyzes these psychological outcomes through use of published or unpublished studies and also considers moderating variables has not been accomplished. This meta-analysis investigates 17 independent study samples (<i>k</i> = 14) that reported anxiety or depression symptomatology in K-12 or higher education students (<i>N</i> = 9893 participants, <i>M</i> age of students ranged from 14.63 to 24.4). Three moderators were introduced into the meta-regression model to understand variation in effect due to between-study characteristics and contexts. The percent of female participants was not significant in explaining the variability in correlation (<i>r</i> = .135, <i>p</i> > 0.05). In addition, studies that measured depression did not have a significantly distinguished relationship with technology use than those that evaluated anxiety (<i>r</i> = .123, <i>p</i> > 0.05). Lastly, whether the participants came from a higher education setting was not significantly associated with study outcome (<i>r</i> = -.056, <i>p</i> > 0.05). However, there exists a significant association between psychological wellbeing and technology use when investigated alone (<i>r</i> = .272, <i>p</i> < 0.001). This suggests a small to medium, yet significant, role in student mental health, and can be used to add depth to the research of technostress in students. Future research should consider the complex ramifications of technostress on educational outcomes to achieve a greater understanding of its consequences. 
